<head>
<title>“Lovers on a Mission”: Black Intimacies and Digital Fandom</title></head>
<body>
<p>I have always been a fan of romance and love stories both in real life and fictional depictions. My grandparents’ marriage has spanned their entire adult lives. I cite their relationship as the catalyst for the questions that have driven my research thus far. Facing decades of race and gender discrimination, how did they maintain their love and not only survive, but thrive? My research focuses on black cultural productions that are thematically invested in exploring romantic love, intimacy, and familial bonds. I’ve conceptualized the dissertation as invested in capturing how the discourse in this contemporary moment reflect the ways in which black people are contending with an aspect of their lives that is often under researched. Through studying their relationship to the objects that they are fans of, I am interested in amplifying common aspects that are of concern but are also to be celebrated. Through this framework, I contend that these objects of study allow fans to see a different and more authentic representation than what has been stereotypically depicted in the media. These representations allow fans to reimagine themselves and their romantic lives. The literature that contends with black intimate lives has focused on black family structures and systems, but not the process of intimate bonding. Further, my research includes queer identities and sexualities to complicate the notion of the heteronormative assumption of what black love representation looks like. The small amount of literature I’ve encountered that engages with black love is heavily concerned with heterosexual and binary gender representations. I believe this is not only discriminatory in nature, but it does a disservice to an entire community of people. I wish to rectify this oversight in my research by centering and placing these tensions in conversation with one another. Relationship creation, maintenance, and healing generational trauma are addressed by my cultural objects thus necessitating textual analysis of both the object and fan engagement. I focus on culture as I see it as a location where people can negotiate their relationship to power and become co-creators in their worlds. I view my research as a conversation between the creators of my cultural objects and the audiences that consume them.</p>

<p>The fields I’ve chosen to put into conversation with each other are Digital Humanities, Fan Studies, and Women and Gender Studies. These fields help me to answer a few pertinent questions relating to my research. How do fans grapple with the reality of their own romantic lives through engaging with their fandom objects? How does social media provide a platform to build community through creating new discourse about the romantic and intimate lives of black people? Similarly, what new types of conversations are creators producing to signal to their fans to create a new discourse? Why intimacy and romance? What is it about this current historical moment that assisted in creating cultural content that seeks to reclaim and reimagine how black people are represented? These questions and more will be explored in my dissertation.</p>

<p>The cultural objects I’ve chosen are narrative based and operate across multiple genres and platforms therefore I will employ a multivalence approach. My main objects of study are web series, television, film, and music. I focus on the queer web series <i>Between Women</i> that depicts black lesbians in Atlanta and their romantic, friendship, and family relationships. The web series <i>Brown Girls</i> has recently been optioned by HBO and depicts a black heterosexual woman and her queer Pakistani best friend’s dating and career adventures in Chicago. I compare the success of <i>Brown Girls'</i> optioning by HBO to the success of another web series to HBO show, <i>Insecure</i>, which chronicles two black women best friends and their rollercoaster romantic relationships in Los Angeles. Finally, through the lens of exploring generational trauma, I am interested in placing Beyoncé’s album <i>Lemonade</i>, her husband Jay-Z’s album <i>4:44</i>, and her sister Solange’s album <i>A Seat at the Table</i> in conversation with one another as they each explore themes of racial injustice, love, and family. I look to Lisa Nakamura’s treatment of race and identity in cyberculture, Kristen Warner’s engagement with representation and authenticity, Rebecca Wanzo’s racial narrative and fandom critique, and Omise’eke Tinsley’s reimagining of the queer black femme as departures to provide just a snapshot of the enriching approaches to my research . I am also invested in a Cultural Studies approach to popular culture that takes into consideration production aspects, audience, content, and the social world the object reflects and reimagines as a basis for how I will approach each object.</p>

<p>My plan is to defend my dissertation proposal in August of 2019. I will work to learn the digital tools necessary for data gathering and methodology. From August 2019 until December 2019 I want master the usage of digital data collection tools such as NVivo, DocNow and Python in order to make sure that I have a firm grasp on the data collection needed from comments and hashtags on Youtube and Twitter. The next phase is to research the production background to ground my argument by taking into consideration the business aspects that make my cultural objects popular. That work should be completed from December 2019 to March 2020. I plan to use mixed methods including close reading and other qualitative and quantitative methods to conceptualizing how I will read fandom through the digital affordances located in blogs, podcasts, and other fan created demonstrations. From March 2020 until March 2021 I will write my dissertation chapters and hope to defend the dissertation in April of 2021.</p></body>
